https://tryhackme.com/room/cryptographyfordummies



# Types of cryptography

There are two types of cryptography :

- Symmetric
- Asymmetric


### Q. What type of cryptography is more secure?
asymmetric 

### Q. What type of cryptography is faster?
symmetric

### Q. What type of cryptography will a Bank site use?
asymmetric

### Q. What will you use to encrypt your messages in asymmetric cryptography?
public key

### Q. What will you use to decrypt messages in asymmetric cryptography?
private key

### Q. Does symmetric cryptography use two different keys for encryption/decryption? (aye/nay)
nay



# What is a hash?

Hashes are a long strings of letters and numbers generated by hashing algorithms. They take plain text and make it a hash.

The important thing about hashes is that they are not reversible. There's no way to decrypt/decode a hash.


The most popular use of hashes is for file identification and storing sensitive data, like passwords. When you create an account on a website your password is converted to hash and this hash is stored in the server's database. So when you login the password that you type in will be converted to a hash, the server will take it and compare it with the hash in it's database, if it's the same that means your password is correct and the server will let you in.



### Q. What's the MD5 hash of "hashes are cool"?
f762d32e3c160900d94b683e927555b9

### Q. What does MD5 stand for?
Message Digest 5

### Q. Who created MD5?
Ronald Rivest




# Decoding/encoding

There's difference between encoding and encrypting. Let's say you have an encrypted file, the only way to decrypt it is using key. While encoded data can be decoded immediately, without keys. It's NOT a form of encryption, it just a way of representing data.

A very popular encoding is Base64. Here's how "hi there" looks with Base64 encoding : aGkgdGhlcmU=



### Q. Encode the string "cryptographyisuseful" with Base64
Y3J5cHRvZ3JhcGh5aXN1c2VmdWw=

### Q. Decode the string "dGhlIHNlY3JldCB3b3JkIGlzIDogd2F0ZXJtZWxvbg==". What's the secret word?
watermelon
